# ObjectiveC training

Presentation slides, programming guidelines, and other training materials for C and ObjectiveC. While quite raw, these are published here as examples of technical writing style, examples of managing technical debt, and  reminders of the true cost of accumulating technical debt. These were all written in 2012 and 2013 and represent state of the art for the time.

All the materials are copyright (C) Taryn VanWagner, redistribution is expressly forbidden.

Working for an enterprise, I found myself training teams of programmers who had only Windows experience, but had been recently tasked with iOS programming. The existing codebase, from the late 80s, had been ported from Classic Windows, through Unix, through Classic MacOs, through Win95 and NT, through Mac OSX, adding ObjectiveC, and finally to early versions of iOS. Needless to say, there was significant technical debt. Though the earliest 'plain C' code was quite good, and written in a fairly portable fashion. that was not the case for much of the subsequent work. The code was full of dead and redundant code, used a great deal of hand-rolled runtime-binding, via multiple tables of function pointers, and copied the Classic Windows style of overloaded structures for function argument passing. This was an excruciating environment for identifying dead code and obsolete functionality, so well obfuscated that automated optimization and analysis tools were helpless against it. 

The largest single problem was the existence of multiple redundant utility and wrapper modules providing similar, but not identical features. The manifestos and standards herein document my efforts to retain the portable C base code where possible, identify, deprecate, and strip those redundant libraries, prevent their reintroduction to the iOS and Mac codebases, and utilize modern ObjectiveC and Cocoa techniques for concurrency, timing, communications, and memory management. The manifestos have been significantly redacted, to remove proprietary materials and protect the guilty, while still providing examples of how to approach technical debt reduction.
